Sometimes you may want to place logically related controls side by side horizontally or vertically. For better
appearance, controls are grouped using different types of separators. Sometimes using a border suffices;
but sometimes you will use the TitledPane controls. The Separator and SplitPane controls are solely
meant for visually separating two controls or two groups of controls.

A Separator is a horizontal or vertical line that separates two groups of controls. Typically, they are used in
menus or combo boxes.

The default constructor creates a horizontal Separator. To create a vertical Separator, you can specify a
vertical orientation in the constructor or use the setOrientation() method, as shown in the following code:

    // Create a horizontal separator
    Separator separator1 = new Separator();
    // Change the orientation to vertical
    separator1.setOrientation(Orientation.VERTICAL);
    // Create a vertical separator
    Separator separator2 = new Separator(Orientation.VERTICAL);

A separator resizes itself to fill the space allocated to it. A horizontal Separator resizes horizontally
and a vertical Separator resizes vertically. Internally, a Separator is a Region. You can change its color and
thickness using a CSS.

The Separator class contains three properties:
    • orientation
    • halignment
    • valignment

The orientation property specifies the orientation of the control. The possible values are one of the
two constants of the Orientation enum: HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL. The halignment property specifies the
horizontal alignment of the separator line within the width of a vertical separator. This property is ignored
for a horizontal separator. The possible values are one of the constants of the HPos enum: LEFT, CENTER,
and RIGHT. The default value is CENTER. The valignment property specifies the vertical alignment of the
separator line within the height of a horizontal separator. This property is ignored for a vertical separator.
The possible values are one of the constants of the VPos enum: BASELINE, TOP, CENTER, and BOTTOM. The
default value is CENTER.
