Порядок рассмотрения примеров:
    SurfaceTexture
    ReflectionTypeTest + LightingUtil
    DistantLightTest + LightingUtil
    PointLightTest + LightingUtil
    SpotLightTest + LightingUtil


JavaFX provides three built-in light sources: distant light, point light, and spot light. A distant light is also
known as a directional or linear light. A distant light source emanates parallel rays of light in a specific
direction on the entire surface uniformly. The sun is a perfect example of a distant light source for the lighted
surface of an object on the earth. The light source is so distant from the lighted object that the rays are
almost parallel. A distant light source lights a surface uniformly, irrespective of its distance from the surface.
This does not mean that the entire object is lighted. For example, when you stand in sunlight, not all parts of
your body are lighted. However, the lighted part of your body has uniform light. The lighted part of an object
depends on the direction of the light.

A point light source emanates rays of light in all directions from an infinitesimally small point in a
3D space. Theoretically, the light source has no dimension. It emanates light uniformly in all directions.
Therefore, unlike the distant light, the direction of the point light source relative to the lighted object is
immaterial. Bare light bulbs, stars (excluding the sun, which serves like a distant light), and candlelight are
examples of point light sources. The intensity of a point light hitting a surface decreases with the square
of the distance between the surface and the point light source. If a point light is very close to the surface,
it creates a hotspot, which is a very bright point on the surface. To avoid hotspots, you need to move the
light source a little away from the surface. A point light source is defined at a specific point in a 3D space,
for example, using x, y, and z coordinates of the point.

A spot light is a special type of a point light. Like a point light, it emanates rays of light radially from an
infinitesimally small point in a 3D space. Unlike a point light, the radiation of light rays is confined to an
area defined by a cone—the light source being at the vertex of the cone emanating light toward its base. 
Examples of spot lights are car headlights, flashlights, spotlights, and desk lights with
lampshades. A spot light is aimed at a point on the surface, which is the point on the surface where the cone
axis is located. The cone axis is the line joining the vertex of the cone to the center of the base of the cone.
The effect of a spot light is defined by the position
of the vertex of the cone, the cone angle, and the rotation of the cone. The rotation of the cone determines
the point on the surface that is intersected by the cone axis. The angle of the cone controls the area of the
lighted area. The intensity of a spot light is highest along the cone axis. You can simulate a distant light using
a spot light if you pull the spot light “far” back, so the rays of light reaching the surface are parallel.

A light source is an instance of the abstract Light class. A light has a color, which is specified by using
the color property of the Light class. For example, using a red color Light will make a Text node with a
white fill look red.

There are three subclasses of the Light class to represent specific types of light source. The subclasses
are static inner classes of the Light class:
    • Light.Distant
    • Light.Point
    • Light.Spot
The Light.Spot class inherits from the Light.Point class.

Tip: When you do not provide a light source for a lighting effect, a distant light is used, which is an instance
of the Light.Distant class.



